02-html-css/2-css/COURSE.md, before:

### History/meaing of CSS

CSS is designed to enable the separation of presentation and content, including layout, colors, and fonts.

### How to integrate in an html page

- inline styling (highest priority, even greater than attribute (img width attribute))
- style tag
- link tag with stylesheet

### Adding classes and ids to html elements

- class
- id

### Basic selectors

- element
- .
- #

### Basic properties

Best documentation https://css-tricks.com/almanac/

- `color`
- `background-color`
- `font-size`
- ...

### Developer tools

- Dev console of any browser
- e.g. Chrome CMD + OPTION + J

### Visual presence (width and height)

### "The box model"

- margin
- border
- padding

### Clockwise notation

- top, right, bottom, left

---

### _TASK_

```
- recreate a simple poster
```

---

### Units

- px
- vh
- vw
- %
- maxh
- maxw
- em
- rem

### Position

- relative
- absolute
- fixed

### Display

- table (just mention)
- flex
- grid (just mention)

### Transform

`transform: scale() skew() translate() etc.`

---

### _TASK_

```
### Button three-ways and centering three-ways

- create the same button using 3 different tags
  - steps:
    - pick 3 different tags
    - strip them of any kind of styling (for example, `<button>`s have some default styling to them)
    - choose a styling that you like for a button
    - make those 3 tags look identical (like a button)
- center a child inside a parent using 3 different methods
```

---

### z-index

### (skipped) background clipping

---

### _TASK_

```
(skipped) Advanced TASK

- re-create a geometric poster
```

---

### Pseudo-selectors

Like: `:hover`, `:not()` etc.

---

### _PROJECT_

```
### Social medial mini-project

Choose a random number between 1 and 7

1. twitter - Cristi
2. pinterest - Alexandra
3. reddit - Dragos Cornean
4. instagram - Ioana
5. linkedin - Nicu
6. facebook - Dragos Bilaniuc
7. behance - Vlad

Recreate the design using pure CSS, and especially flexbox
```

---

### Advanced Selectors

this list https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.asp

Compound selector:

- " "
- "+"
- ","
- "~"

---

### _TASK_

```md
Context menu ("burger" menu)

Add a context menu to your social media mini-project using ONLY css.

Hint: use <label>, a hidden <input type="checkbox"> and a div with position: absolute
```

---

### Multi-rules

- background
  - background-color
  - background-size
  - background-position
  - ...

### Animations

### Media-queries and responsive design

---

### _TASK_

```
Add responsiveness to your mini-project
```

---

### CSS frameworks

- Bootstrap
- Material Design
- Tailwind CSS

---

### _PROJECT_

```
Recreate Piktology project

Notes:
- the project should be responsive
- the interns don't have to recreate the select language dropdown
- colored logo => completely white logo using just CSS (footer)
- simple image => image with a color overlay using just CSS (last section of the project)
- don't use offset columns (from Bootstrap)
- they can use empty columns for layout
- there should be only ONE single div with the class container
- the interns have to implement the carousel component from Bootstrap
- we don't have special assets for the carousel, they can use any images
- a carousel slide if comprised of image + title + description
- add an "on hover" effect for each slide of the carousel (play button)
- be careful on how to solve the responseviness of the footer

BONUS POINTS:
- add an "on hover" effect on each card in the section "Three distinct papers"
- add an "on hover" effect on each image in the gallery section ("Make it memorable")
```

---

### SASS teaser

- nestable rule sets

### Project setup with nodemon and SASS

### SASS features

- variables
- mixins
- imports

### _PROJECT (?)_

```
don't know what to give them for the SASS stuff
```

---

Commit message:

move assets to google drive

02-html-css/2-css/COURSE.md, after:

### History/meaing of CSS

CSS is designed to enable the separation of presentation and content, including layout, colors, and fonts.

### How to integrate in an html page

- inline styling (highest priority, even greater than attribute (img width attribute))
- style tag
- link tag with stylesheet

### Adding classes and ids to html elements

- class
- id

### Basic selectors

- element
- .
- #

### Basic properties

Best documentation https://css-tricks.com/almanac/

- `color`
- `background-color`
- `font-size`
- ...

### Developer tools

- Dev console of any browser
- e.g. Chrome CMD + OPTION + J

### Visual presence (width and height)

### "The box model"

- margin
- border
- padding

### Clockwise notation

- top, right, bottom, left

---

### _TASK_

```
- recreate a simple poster or a typography poster
```

Templates: https://drive.google.com/open?id=116h_8lshiox1nKFmXQcDJ5wLypsYYVgZ

---

### Units

- px
- vh
- vw
- %
- maxh
- maxw
- em
- rem

### Position

- relative
- absolute
- fixed

### Display

- table (just mention)
- flex
- grid (just mention)

### Transform

`transform: scale() skew() translate() etc.`

---

### _TASK_

```
### Button three-ways and centering three-ways

- create the same button using 3 different tags
  - steps:
    - pick 3 different tags
    - strip them of any kind of styling (for example, `<button>`s have some default styling to them)
    - choose a styling that you like for a button
    - make those 3 tags look identical (like a button)
- center a child inside a parent using 3 different methods
```

---

### z-index

### (skipped) background clipping

---

### _TASK_

```
(skipped) Advanced TASK

- re-create a geometric poster
```

---

### Pseudo-selectors

Like: `:hover`, `:not()` etc.

---

### _PROJECT_

NOTE: Give the interns the mockups found in the Google Drive folder. They were carefully selected to be relatively similar in terms of difficulty.

```
### Social medial mini-project

Choose a random number between 1 and 7

1. twitter - Cristi
2. pinterest - Alexandra
3. reddit - Dragos Cornean
4. instagram - Ioana
5. linkedin - Nicu
6. facebook - Dragos Bilaniuc
7. behance - Vlad

Recreate the design of a post from the social media platform that was assigned to you.
Use only pure CSS and, especially, flexbox.
```

Mockups: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Q4nTk_emyoLUOsdg5fXrG-fFhUANj0wu

---

### Advanced Selectors

this list https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.asp

Compound selector:

- " "
- "+"
- ","
- "~"

---

### _TASK_

```md
Context menu ("burger" menu)

Add a context menu to your social media mini-project using ONLY css.

Hint: use <label>, a hidden <input type="checkbox"> and a div with position: absolute
```

---

### Multi-rules

- background
  - background-color
  - background-size
  - background-position
  - ...

### Animations

### Media-queries and responsive design

---

### _TASK_

```
Add responsiveness to your mini-project
```

---

### CSS frameworks

- Bootstrap
- Material Design
- Tailwind CSS

---

### _PROJECT_

```
### Recreate Piktology

Notes:
- the project should be responsive
- the interns don't have to recreate the select language dropdown
- colored logo => completely white logo using just CSS (footer)
- simple image => image with a color overlay using just CSS (last section of the project)
- don't use offset columns (from Bootstrap)
- they can use empty columns for layout
- there should be only ONE single div with the class container
- the interns have to implement the carousel component from Bootstrap
- we don't have special assets for the carousel, they can use any images
- a carousel slide if comprised of image + title + description
- add an "on hover" effect for each slide of the carousel (play button)
- be careful on how to solve the responseviness of the footer

BONUS POINTS:
- add an "on hover" effect on each card in the section "Three distinct papers"
- add an "on hover" effect on each image in the gallery section ("Make it memorable")
```

Mockup and assets: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1FgHxlvnLnbDDMAwbI19rAzjaXefRyI8d

---

### SASS teaser

- nestable rule sets

### Project setup with nodemon and SASS

### SASS features

- variables
- mixins
- imports

### _PROJECT (?)_

```
don't know what to give them for the SASS stuff
```

---
